---
layout: post
title: Year of Firsts
created: 1087747786
permalink: "/2004/06/20/year_firsts/"
---
___Note:  I've not finished editing and proofing this story yet, but feel free to have a read anyways.___
----
I've done many things for the first time this year.  It's been my first big trip by
myself. My first time around the world. My first time in
California, Fiji, Austrailia, New  Zealand and Southeast
Asia.  My first snorkelling, surfing, bodyboarding, zorbing,
luging and skydiving.  My first time living and working in
a foreign country (well, I guess New Zealand is only
slightly foreign, but it still counts).  My first...
Well, I can't tell you about that right now. Hell, I nearly
did my first Kareoke!  It's been that kind of year.

And now, my first dead body.  Let me backtrack a little to
illustrate this one very mixed experience of a day in
Bangkok.
<!--break-->
It all started rather well.  I'd decided to head to the
chatuchak weekend market - sold to me as one of the best
shopping experiences in Bangkok.  Given that you can buy
just about anything you can imagine here, and a few things
you would probably rather not, I thought this could be worth
doing. (???<-rubbish<-???) Those who know me best will be
suprised to learn that I got up nice and early to get there
before the crowds and the heat of the day got too much.  I
jumped on one of the boats that runs down the Chao Phraya
River, around which Bangkok grew, and this soon delivered me
to the downtown area an into the welcoming air-conditioned
arms of a Skytrain (just an overhead underground).  A
handful of stops later and I'd arrived at Mo Chit station,
just north of the market, at around 9am.


I didn't realise at the time, but I had actually seen the
market from the Skytrain.  It was just that I thought the
sea of undulating silver roofing was actually some kind of
railway depot.  This thing is simply huge.  So big it's
split into sections, like Antiques, Books, Clothing &
Accessories, Housewares and so on.  However, I think the
thing that suprised me most was what I shall forever think
of as Dog Alley.

It's not so much the fact that pets were on sale there that
surprised me.  It was the sheer number and variety of dogs
and other animals that were on offer.  Enough to make me
wonder whether this was actually part of the curry industry
and not a pet market all ;)  I was just wandering aimlessly
around when I came across some dogs being, well, manicured.
You've never lived until you've seen a curmudgeonly Thai man
washing, trimming, blow-drying and dressing a six-inch
Dobermann.  I wandered on, and began to understand the size
of this place.  There were dogs in cages, behind glass, in
baskets on the floor and on shouting people's knees, and for
all I know, a few of the uglier dogs round the back sharing
brown sacks with bricks.  Or perhaps the point where a dog
becomes too old to be cute is the point where the pet and
curry industries meet.  There were a few cats, and some
small mammals of the cute and fluffy variety that I didn't
recognise, but it was mostly just dogs.

I was also particularly taken with a coffee shop hidden
aaway between some furniture shops.  Quite what it was doing
there I have no idea, but it served Illy coffee, one of my
favourites back home that I havn't seen while being away, so
I thought it rude not to stop for a while.

More suprising still was the sheer number of people who came
up to me to tell me all about their sister, who was just
about to move to London/Manchester/something that sounded
llike Liverpool to work as a nurse/doctor.  I was pained to
learn that each and every mother of the aforementioned kin
was deeply worried about this move, crying constantly in
fact, and that it would mean a great deal to them if I could
go to their house, which was never too far away, and help
console the matriarch by explaining how nice things are
there.  I was of course flattered that my near end-ful
knowledge of moving to the UK to work as in the medical
profession could provide such solace for this family.
However, I felt I was far to busy to help at that time, and
indeed even suspected that this was simply some kind of
rouse in order that some ambigious service could be
rendered, so politely declined.  The fact that I was usually
introduced to the aforementioned sister during this
conversation (5 out of 7 times) should surely not be taken
as any kind of confirmation that my distrustful suspicions
were in any way grounded in truth.

In between dodging these advances, pulling faces at animals
and small children, and drinking coffee, I did actually
manage to get a little shopping done.  A couple of vaguely
ethic long-sleeved shirts, only one of which I think I could
actually where back home, and a rather fine silk tie were my
trophies.  All for around six pounds, and it probably could
have been less if I was any good at the whole barganing
thing.

Dinner

Although I could happily have spent the whole day finding
new bits of the market to wander around and squander on, by
early afternoon the crowds and the heat were a bit too much
for me and I decided to head on.  I caught the Skytrain
again and stopped in Siam Square, at the other end of
Bangkok's shopping spectrum.  Gleaming malls of chrome and
marble, with escalators stretching as far as the eye can
see, and more desirable consumer electronics than you can
shake a very geeky stick at.  Nevertheless, I was still
approached by a man who wanted me to meet his sister, and
after the rather more enjoyable market I quickly decided to
head back towards my digs in Banglampoo.

The Skytrain does not stretch that far, so I found one of
the few remaining canals in the city and caught a boat back
towards Banglampoo.  This was perhaps the best bit of the
day, as these boats zoom through these narrow channels,
zig-zagging between the other boats and the many and various
concrete and steel pillars which have been placed in the
canal apparently at random.  As the backs of the
backstreets of Bangkok whizz by, I got to play the 'guess
when to get off' game again.  Fortunately, the end of the
line was pretty close to where I wanted to be, and very
close to a place called Golden Mount, one of the temples I
wanted to visit.

Golden Mount appear to be the only hill in Bangkok, which
lead to some unaccustomed legwork but also some very fine
views over the city.  I could have spent longer there,
enjoying the tranquility of the temple and its gardens with
the heaving masses at a safe distance, but there were
closing for the day.  I took my time walking down the hill,
wondering what to do next.  This temple had reminded me of
aother one not too far away, containing 3 metres of actual
real gold Budda.  This was also near the train station, so I
could go and get the information I needed from their and see
if that temple was still open while I was at it.

On the way out I the grounds of the Golden Mount, I was
haruanged by yet another tuk-tuk driver, or rather by his
English-speaking friend who was acting as a translator.  I
was giving the usual nothankyous when he said '10 Baht
anywhere in the city'.  This sounded like a remarkably good
deal (in hindsight, perhaps I should have thought about that
more closely), so I asked him to ask him to take me to the
train station.

I'd not actually been in a tuk-tuk before this, and was
rather enjoying bombing around in this puttering pram.  The
only problem was that as it wove through the streets I
quickly lost my bearings.  I'm always happier when I
know where I am and which way I'm heading.

The journey seemed to be taking a little longer than I had
expected, so I started trying to work out the route we were
taking.  As I started paying attention to my surroundings
again, I realised that the road we were on could not by any
stretch of the imagination be considered a main street.  In
fact it looked pretty dodgy to me, so I asked the driver
where we were.  He just said 'train station, train station'
while waving vaguely towards the vast lot of abandoned and
gently decomposing railway carriages we happened to by
flying past at the time.

I was not entirely convinced by this, and took my
most valuble belongings, like my passport, and put them in
my secret hiding place (under my hat - thanks Sarah!) as
discreetly as I could.  I thought I was probably
over-reacting, after all, they seemed such nice people, and
they're probably friends with the Monks and everything, but
I was rattled.

Finally, we turned off this back street and back onto a main
road.  I was about half-way through my sigh of relief when
he made a very sharp right and then slowed down onto yet
another dodgy looking backstreet.  The previous one had
worried me because it was so quiet, deserted in fact,  but I
suddenly saw that 'occupied' could be much worse.

There were a lot of Thais here, just milling around.  The
street was clearly very poor, but they still had their
pride.  The young men were simply but sharply dressed, and
the few cars there were gleamed with polish that comes with
being someone's only prized possession.  I felt like I was
being pushed through Moss Side in a shopping trolley.

It was about this time that I saw a young man lying
awkwardly in the road by one of the cars, prostrate with his
legs twisted against the front wheel.  As the tuk-tuk drew
slowly passed I realised this was just some young kid,
probably only 17.  Then I saw the pool of blood underneath
his head, and the fresh blood gently seeping from his face.
He really was very still.  I looked away.

I was now quite convinced we were heading well out of town
to visit some of my drivers friends, and that if I was
lucky, I might just get left with nothing.  To my relief we
turned onto a reasonably busy street - even a few more
tuk-tuks were a welcome sight at this point.  Again, my
relief was short-lived, as we started to turn into yet
another backstreet.  This time, a dark, enclosed, winding
alley.  I just couldn't take it any more, so as we slowed on
the turn I leapt from the tuk-tuk, almost losing my now
priceless hat in the process.  The driver stopped and seemed
genuinely confused, indicating that we were nearly there.  I
just gave him the money and walked off like I was exactly
where I wanted to be.

Except I had no idea were I was.  At least the street was
fairly busy, but there were no pedestrians around so all I
could do was head to wherever the traffic looked densest.
I got lucky and hit one of the main roads quite quickly, but
in that state of mind I just could not work out where I was
on the map.  Not least because I didn't want to look too
much like a lost tourist, for fear of getting in even more
trouble.  I couldn't find anyone who spoke English, but the
real problem was I couldn't find anyone who knew how to use
a map.  I ended up with three wildly different and entirely
wrong opinions of where 'here' was, and one of the people
I asked was a bus driver!  I ended up talking to another
tuk-tuk driver, who offered to take me to the station for
five Baht.  Yet another cheap offer just freaked me out even
more, so I just kept heading towards where I thought the
town centre must be.  About 20 paces later, a large building
that was clearly the train station came into view.  Now
I understood why that 5 Baht was still overcharging.

So, I'd lept from the tuk-tuk not all that far from the
station, but on the opposite side of and not that much
closer to it than where I'd started off from.  Looking back,
the driver was probably just avoiding the rush-hour traffic,
but didn't realise that tourists like me don't really want
to get that close to the real Bangkok.  We'll never know.

Walking over to the station, I got approached yet again.
This time the guy looked vaguely official, although the fact
that he had a Tourist Authority of Thailand (TAT) identity
card cannot be taken as a guarentee in a city where anything
can be bought, up to and well beyond the identity papers of
your choice.  He just happened to have the leaflet I
needed, so I gladly took it and headed towards the station
again.  At this point he started to explain that everything
would be much cheaper if I went with him to the TAT office.
I pointed at the large sign outside the official TAT office
just opposite the station, and asked if he meant that one.
He mumbled something about that office only dealing with
guesthouse bookings, in clear contradiction to what it said
in big writing on the bright yellow-on-blue sign, and that
the place I wanted was just 'round the corner'.  They always
are.

While I understand why it exists, I really hate this scammer
culture towards westerners.  Simple because they take
advantage of my tendency to be polite to strangers, and
force me to lie extravagantly and then be rude to them
simply in order to get on with my day.  I really do not
enjoy having to do that.  Also, being a lone pasty bloke
does not help me to blend in, and many of these people
usually assume I'm a sex tourist, which is downright
offensive.  Not a single tuk-tuk driver failed to make a
comment about whether I wanted to be taken to a show, or
have some Thai girl/boy/whatever-you-like for only 1000 Baht
for a whole night, including drinks!  Is there something
wrong with me, that I should find this all so utterly
depressing?

Having got the information I needed, I checked out the
temple of the Golden Budda and found it had also closed for
the day.  Ironically, until the Bangkok subway open next
month, the main train station will continue to be one o the
least well connected parts of the city.  I was still feeling
shaken by the tuk-tuk ride, and completely stuck as the
night began to close in.  I wandered in toward
Chinatown, but the streets were getting darker and I was
feeling even more isolated.  Again, another tuk-tuk driver
approaches me, clearly aware of my state, and makes me
anoffer I can't refuse.   Either 50 Baht back to Thanon Khao
San, with two stops at shops he gets commission from on the
way, or 100 Baht with no stops.  Even the 50 is
overcharging, but at least this scammer is open about it,
although I've heard that people sometimes get dumped at the
shops, with no easy onward transport. I so want to get
back to my guesthouse, that I take the no-stops option.

Even now, I feel edgy all the way back, trying to work out
where we are and if we are heading home.  Eventually, I
recognise where we are, and am relieved to step out into the
manic but familar surroundings of Khao San.  He gets his
100B and a special goodbye wave from me.

I walk up Khao San, taking in the bright lights of the
horrendously familar - Starbucks, MacDonalds, Burger King,
hell even Boots the chemist - and I'm briefly glad
to see them.  I head on to one of the shinier bars, and
treat myself to a rather good red curry, and a whole damn
jug of Chang beer thank you very much.  My bed is only a
short walk away.  Bangkok is certainly an impressive place,
a kind of logical extreme, by turns magnificent and
depressing.  I think it's time to move on.

----


Short version, in case I ever feel up to re-writing it.
*Early start, weather etc
*Boat on river
*Skytrain
*Market
*Sisters, mothers and offers
*Shirts and tie
*Lunch
*Golden Mount
*Tuk-tuk to station, 'near station', backstreets, dead body of a young man, leap out
*Lost
*Eventually find wrong side of station, almost as far away as was before.  Could have been cause of rush hour.
*5B tuk to the corner
*Station
*Scared of tuk-tuks, esp cheap ones.
*Eventually pay expensive one.
*Back to _Khao San_ for beer and a very fine red curry.
*But really rather shaken by the whole thing.
