---
layout: post
type: blog
promote: 0
status: 1
created_ts: 1110934934
changed_ts: 1279903438
node_id: 1595
title: paucity
created: '2005-03-16'
changed: '2010-07-23'
aliases:
- "/2005/03/16/paucity/"
- "/node/1595/"
permalink: "/2005/03/16/paucity/"
tags:
- General
---
Well, it's all been rather quiet on the old blog lately.  I had some bad news recently that meant I really wasn't in the mood to write anything (I'm not going to talk about it here.  If you know me well enough to ask, ask).  Anyways, it's time to do some catching up now...
<!--break-->
Well, Milford was fantastic, and the whole Queenstown escapade was pretty good overall.  I'll write more when I've sorted out some of the pictures.  I've also just been up to Castlepoint and Cape Palliser over this last weekend, so I'll post some of those photos up as well.

But now I'm in the last week of my time here, and things are beginning to get hectic.  I'm just writing this while I wait for some new simulation runs to finish.  The simulation appears to be working okay, at least in that the bits of it that are not working so well are well understood!  :-?

So, hopefully, the work will be in a resonable state when I leave next Wednesday (the 23rd).  I'll be heading straight through to Edinburgh, as I have some very important bees-kneees to attend to there.  I don't yet have a job lined up, so I guess I'll just have to see what happens.  I'll be back in Derbyshire as soon as I can, but I have [David and Jenny's wedding](http://www.daveandjen.co.uk) to go to, so it'll be sometime shortly after that.

It's been great being out here in Wellington again, and I've had a good time here.  Switching between hemispheres and having five summers in a row has been pretty cool, but I've decided to go back to Edinburgh to stay - and I'm very _very_ much looking forward to it. ;-)

Anj 
