---
layout: post
title: cusp
created: 1111545745
permalink: "/2005/03/23/cusp/"
---
I've been a bit worried, as for the last week flights from Wellington airport have been severely delayed due to foggy conditions.  I looked out of my window this morning, and saw banks of fog still clinging low on the hillsides...
<!--break-->
Happily, as the day wore on, [http://www.stuff.co.nz/stuff/0,2106,3226527a11,00.html the clouds lifted], and by lunchtime there were blue skies overhead.  In fact, it's one of the nicest days we've had for a while.

Packing this morning turned into a bit of a panic, but by throwing out lots of clothes that probably should have been thrown out already, I've managed to fit everything into my two bags, with my laptop case stuffed to the gills as hand-luggage.  I've just cleared my desk space, and will be leaving for the airport in about 20 minutes.

Here's the itinery:
*Flight #NZ476, Wellington to Auckland, 7:30-8:30pm NZ time.
*Flight #NZ2, Auckland to LAX, 9:30pm NZT - 1:25pm LAT.
*Flight #NZ2, LAX to Heathrow, 3:25pm LAT - 9:50am GMT.

Then I'll go over to King's Cross, and hopefully catch the 11am train to Edinburgh, getting into Waverly at 3:30pm.  A quick taxi ride and I'll be in Marchmont before you can say ''"whole new fantastic future"''.

I'll be crossing the dateline backwards today.  I kind of like the fact that the last journey of the longest summer will end with the longest day of the lot.  For me, the 23rd of March will go on for somewhat longer than 24 hours.  I'm heading from autumn to spring, and into the last summer of five in a row. It looks like being the best one of them all.

If you need to contact me, I'll be switching back to my UK mobile number after NZ, as that account will work in LA and, of course, the UK.

See you on the other side.

Anj
